#### Sara:

Hello, this is the CodeSandbox podcast. And I'm your host, Sara Vieira. I'm a
senior front end developer at CodeSandbox. If you don't know already,
CodeSandbox is an on- line code editor that allows people and developers at all
skill levels to build amazing projects and apps quickly and collaboratively. We
have so many amazing users out there, and I want to highlight their incredible
stories.

#### Sara:

Throughout this podcast, I'll be chatting with some amazing developers and other
com- munity members, and we'll be discussing interesting topics like developer
relations, project building, and open source software, just to name a few. With
this podcast, we want to do more than just talk about CodeSandbox. I hope you
can walk away with valuable insights that will help you improve your skills as a
developer and as a creator. Let's get started.

#### Sara:

On this first episode of the CodeSandbox podcast, we're looking at prototyping.
Proto- typing allows you to test your ideas early, iterate more, and create
better products. Whether it's a static site, a component, or a full-stack web
app, prototyping is extremely important when it comes to product development.
Our guest this week is Charlie Ger- ard. She's a senior front end developer at
Netlify. We'll talk about building side projects, machine learning, and the
process behind writing her new book, Radical Machine Learning and JavaScript.
Here we go.

#### Sara:

How are you doing today?

#### Charlie:

I'm good. Thanks for having me. I'm really excited.

#### Sara:

I also want everyone to know that we're doing this recording on international
women's day, which is super nice. It's actually a holiday here in Berlin. Tell
us a little bit about yourself.

#### Charlie:

I'm Charlie. I'm currently a senior front-end developer at Netlify. And in terms
of hobbies, if it's around technology, I usually like to play around with human
computer interaction, and outside of tech, I love to go hiking and I listen to a
lot of music. And in general, I love to learn a lot of different things.

#### Sara:

How did you start coding? When did you really start getting into it?

#### Charlie:

So I got into tech by doing a boot camp. It's a boot camp called General
Assembly. And it was a 12 week intensive full-stack boot camp where I learned a
bit of Ruby on the backend and HTML, CSS, and JavaScript on the front end.
That's where I started learn- ing the basics. And at the time, I was thinking I
was interested in tech, but I wasn't sure that it was something that I could do,
because I think in my head, I still had the stereo- type of like, you have to be
good at math and it's something for the boys. But I thought it's 12 weeks, so if
I don't succeed, if it's too hard for me or if I don't like it, I still have my
master's degree in communication. So I can still go back and do that. But I
actually loved it. And I couldn't go back after that. There was no way. Once you
taste it, you just don't go back.

#### Sara:

What was the first website or app that you ever made?

#### Charlie:

It was really simple, but it was an assignment, some kind of homework for my
boot- camp. The assignment was called dancing cats. I think it was the first
JavaScript as- signment to make a little cat go from left to right on a screen.
Just that. And the thing is that, as soon as I did that, I automatically was
like, that's not enough. I want to do more.

#### Charlie:

So in the end, I submitted that assignment and there was just gifs of cats going
all over the screen and I added music and it was a galaxy background and stuff.
Now the code was probably horrible. I don't even want to look at it, but it was
the first time that I actual- ly used code to do something a bit more playful.
So while most of the class had stuck to just one cat across the screen, I had
gone completely so big. And it was fun. I was just really happy. I think it's
probably the first time that I spent almost all my night on there just because I
wanted to add more and it was fun. So that's one of the very first things that I
did.

#### Sara:

I feel like after all this time, I don't think I've done anything cooler than
making a bunch of cats jump on a galaxy. It can be more technically impressive.
That's different. Okay. So that's a good start to talking about all the random
stuff that you actually make. Sara: So when you build these projects, what is
your process?

#### Charlie:

I think that my goal when I start a side project is to validate hypotheses. My
goal is not for millions of people to use my projects. Usually I have a question
in my head, it's maybe I am inspired by a project that somebody else did and I'm
thinking, can I do the same thing but in JavaScript? Or I come up with a brand
new idea that I've never had before, the goal of my project is just to see if I
can make it work. I don't need it to be production ready. This is absolutely not
my goal. And I think that allows me to frame my project with an end goal. I know
that I finished the thing when I've been able to answer the question I had at
the beginning.

#### Charlie:

And it could be no. Like sometimes I'm glad when I can finish something. And to
me, fin- ishing would be like, yes, I can answer my question. This is possible.
Or this is possible in JavaScript, but the answer could also be no. And that
means that I also finished the project, but I usually don't share it. I actually
should share what I don't finish so people wouldn't waste the time the same way
that I do.

#### Charlie:

But sometimes it's also like, I can't answer the question. So maybe I pause that
project and then I know that I'll get back to it later when I have more
knowledge or when I re- frame the question in a way that I can actually be
achieved. So to me, that's my way of finishing things. Once I have my question
and I know what I want to prove, then I can break down the project into small
chunks that are doable in my schedule. And that's also why I never add tests to
my project. I never really refactor them. It's not the goal. If it was the goal,
I would rearrange my schedule to make it work, but that's not the fun part to
me.

#### Sara:

What really motivates you to build these things, to learn these new things and
stuff?

#### Charlie:

It's the learning part. Over the years, I realized that what truly makes me
happy is to learn a bunch of random stuff. I think every time that I learned
something new, I get this rush of adrenaline. And I think that's why even on the
job, I need to make sure that I keep learning. I think I get bored really fast.
So that's why I keep building a bunch of random stuff, because I love learning.
And every time that I build something, I come up with a different idea of maybe
mixing technologies together or building something that has been done in another
technology. And I bring it to JavaScript or I make it interactive and fun. And I
think that's what makes me happy. I don't think I could build side projects if
it was around something that is maybe fun but not fun for me. I want to make
sure that I select projects that are truly exciting to me and don't feel like
I'm forcing myself to do it.

#### Sara:

I think there are two types of projects that I've realized that I've done in my
life, which is, ones that feel like work but are not work, and ones that I'm
like, this is cool. I want to fin- ish this. But they're not actually pretty ...
They're not very useful, but I'm like, this is im- portant. I must finish. I'm
exactly the same. So it's nice to see that it kind of works in a similar way,
where it's like, I just want to build this thing. It's not because it's going to
be useful. I just want to build this thing. And that's how I learn things, is by
building things. I learned a lot by prototyping and just building stuff.

#### Sara:

That takes us to CodeSandbox. The main reason why I started using CodeSandbox
be- fore I joined was to do a bunch of prototyping and building small projects.
Has this been your experience as well?

#### Charlie:

Yeah, exactly. There's a few of my side projects that are hosted on CodeSandbox.
be- cause I know that if I build something in [inaudible 00:07:55] or an
application that's in- teractive that needs an [inaudible 00:07:57] server, with
website circuits or something like that, hosting it on CodeSandbox makes it
really easy because then I can just share the URL and people can see it
directly.

#### Charlie:

And to me, usually when I build something, I like to share a demo. So having
something that's easily shareable that people can look at the code and they can
fork it and change it themselves, that is something that I really enjoy. I like
things to be open. That's why I share everything I do. Some projects are closed
source, but it's usually because I haven't finished them. Otherwise everything
is open source. And the fact that people can reuse what I build just by forking
in one of that CodeSandbox and redoing their own and adding to it or playing
around with the code. It's the other exciting part of why I do what I do as
well.

#### Sara:

In the last couple of years, I think, what 2018 or something, you started doing
a bunch of stuff with machine learning. How did you discover machine learning?

#### Charlie:

I know that I wanted to look into it pretty early on. I think it started at the
same time as my experiments with brain sensors and doing mind-controlled
applications. Because I wanted to be able to use raw data and build models that
would recognize my thoughts to then do stuff in the front end. But as I knew
that for my brain sensor experiences, I needed to push it further. I needed to
learn a little bit about machine learning. That forced me to go into it because
I knew that I didn't want to block my experiments be- cause I didn't know
something. So I think that, as I had an idea of what I wanted to do, I jumped
into machine learning with a goal in mind already, but I knew that I needed to
start small as well.

#### Charlie:

So I started reading blog posts, and I actually started in Python at first with
TensorFlow. And then when they released TensorFlow.js, then I was like, no need
for Python any- more. And I switched to JavaScript. It meant that it removed a
barrier in the projects that I was doing. Because instead of learning machine
learning and Python, I could remove the Python part. And I still do a bit of
Python now, but I don't feel pressured to learn it because I have access to the
same thing in JavaScript.

#### Charlie:

So I got into it slowly. When I try to learn any tool, I read some blog posts
and a lot of the times the big inner blog posts use the same exact example. But
then I quickly moved on to doing something that maybe same was a bit more
exciting for me. I strug- gle to follow a blog post if the end result is not
something I'm super excited about. So I quickly switched the input data and the
output that I wanted and things like that. And lit- tle by little, I built up
some knowledge and I came up with more ideas and it's been pret- ty fun.

#### Sara:

Do you have any tips for anyone who wants to start with machine learning?

#### Charlie:

Following a tutorial to me is a good thing. Just to have an idea of really the
complexity and then you realize, Oh, well actually it's not what I thought it
was. And you don't have to start with TensorFlow. If it's scary to you, there's
a few other frameworks like ml5.js that try to abstract. Because TensorFlow just
introduces some words that you might not be familiar with, but you can start
with ml5.js if you want. Otherwise, I wrote a book about it, if you want to
start with that.

#### Charlie:

So it's written for people who know JavaScript, but who don't know anything
about ma- chine learning. And it goes through the few different things that you
can do with Tensor- Flow.js, a little vital role with project examples. And from
there, if people go through the code samples and do the exercises, people can
branch off and replace the inputs and the outputs and things like that. So this
book is supposed to help beginners.

#### Charlie:

I don't think people can realize the amount of work and effort and energy that
goes into writing a book when you want to do it, I don't know how other people
do it, my goal was to make it accessible to any JavaScript developer. I really
re-read my own book so many times because I wanted to make sure that things made
sense, that the language that I was using was inclusive and welcoming. Because I
think the sad part was, as I was doing research to write the book, I came across
so many tutorials where people use language like, well obviously you do this,
or, well, this is stupid. Don't do it this way. Do it this way. I read so many
articles that honestly made me think that obviously no- body's going to look
into machine learning if that's the language that people are using. So I really
wanted my book to not be like that. And that took a lot of work because I needed
to put myself in the position of somebody who would be picking that up for the
first time.

#### Sara:

Let's talk a little bit about doing tech talks. I've also done a couple of tech
talks in my day, in my heyday, when I was a sweet summer child. What is your
process for writing a talk?

#### Charlie:

I haven't done many talks last year because I struggled with video conferences,
but as the world is reopening and I'm hoping to get back on stage at some point.
I've had a few ideas or projects that I started and I would like to use that as
an inspiration to build a talk. At the moment I have a project, and I think it's
interesting and I think it could be helping people to learn something new. I
want to use that as the driving force to write a talk, but that's a bit more
difficult because then I don't have a deadline. The deadline could be the end of
the project I'm working on, but that doesn't really work that way. So I do both
and it depends on what I know at the time, or maybe how much I want to talk in
that conference as well.

#### Sara:

I don't miss the dread of the five minutes before I talk where no one can talk
to you or you're going to punch them with your eyes. But I really miss speaking
in conferences in general. It's something that it's like ... I think for both of
us, we're people who are very used to just traveling around, it's been
interesting, but let's go with that word. That sounds like a good word. In terms
of getting started, do you have any tips for anyone who wants to get started
into doing tech talks but doesn't quite know how?

#### Charlie:

I never started with conferences straight away. I did a few meetups, and same
thing, I picked something that I had built that I thought was really fun. And I
used my excitement to counter my stress. Because I had been to meetups before
and the topics, they were not what I was building. And I was like, well, maybe I
can show what I built and it will be a bit different and whatever, but I started
like that. And it was terrifying, but it's also ... I was excited. So I was
like, I'm going to try this time. And maybe if people really hate it, I'll just
never come back.

#### Charlie:

And then from there, I actually repeated the same talk at other events and
slowly I ap- plied at conferences, but I got rejected too. I spoke at [inaudible
00:14:52], I don't re- member which year, 2018 maybe, I was rejected the year
before with the same talk. The thing is that the title of my talk was different,
but the idea was the same. So you can be rejected one year and not the other.

#### Charlie:

It also depends on what other people have submitted. And if all the talks are
about re- act, then they might want to pick one talk that's a bit different, or
usually more, they try to be quite diverse. But I think my tip would be to start
at a meetup because there's less of a selection process. Usually you go to the
organizer and you're like, I'd really like to talk about my side project or
about something that I learned. And from there you prac-tice public speaking.
And if you have friends who you know will be honest with you, you can ask for
feedback.

#### Charlie:

I think going little by little and believing in your topic because it means that
you will use that as a motivation. Because preparing a talk is also a lot of
time. So you have to make sure that you're actually excited. Otherwise, you
probably will give up or want to give up at some point. That's my process. I
still get rejected sometimes. Can't win all the time, but if it's something
you're excited about, somebody will want to listen.

#### Charlie:

One last thing that I told some of my friends sometimes is like, when they are
scared to apply to speak at a conference, what I've told them is, well, the
thing that you can do is apply, then the decision to be selected or not has
nothing to do with you. So if you apply or you don't apply, that doesn't change
it. But at least if you apply, you do the thing that you control. You don't have
to stress about applying because applying doesn't mean be- ing selected. Then if
you're selected, you can start to freak out, but that's too late. You're
selected.

#### Charlie:

You can still say no at that point. You can still say, I don't feel it or the
time doesn't work or whatever, but at least you did the first step. And
sometimes being stuck in that stress- ful situation of like, damn, I got
selected, that actually motivates you to actually do it. But you did a part of
the work. You can't control who selects or who doesn't, but at least if you are
selected, it means that people are interested in your idea, and then you can de-
cide to go further or not. And I feel like that has unblocked some of my friends
to do the first step.

#### Sara:

Where can people find you online? Any project resources? And please mention your
book that people should check out.

#### Charlie:

On Twitter I'm @devdevCharlie. Otherwise my portfolio is CharlieGerard.dev and
then there is a book by a person called Charlie Gerard. She wrote about
TensorFlow.js for developers.

#### Sara:

Well, thank you so much, Charlie. Thank you so much for coming and answering all
my questions.

#### Charlie:

Thank you so much for having me.

#### Sara:

Thank you so much for listening to the show this week. If you want to find out
more in- formation, visit us at codesandbox.io/CSBpodcast. And if you liked this
episode, please share it on social media as well. Use the hashtag #csbpodcast,
or you can send us a tweet at @codesandbox. Our executive producer is Maurice
Cherry with additional pro- ducing help from Ceora Ford. Engineering and editing
are courtesy of Resonate Recordings. Special thanks to Charlie Gerard from
Netlify as well as the entire team of CodeSandbox.
