#### Sara Vieira:

Hello, I'm Sara Vieira and this is the CodeSandBox Podcast. On this episode,
we're going to take a look at open source. Maintaining open source projects can
be fulfilling, but it can also be time consuming and stressful. This week's
guest is Elizabet Oliveira. She's a senior product designer at Elastic. We're
going to talk about her journey from being a musician to working in tech, the
value of design systems and how open source projects really helped her career.
Here we go.

#### Sara Vieira:

Hello Elizabeth. How are you doing today?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yes, I'm very good at weather is good in Lisbon. So everything's perfect.

#### Sara Vieira:

Tell us a little bit about yourself and what you do right now at Elastic.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

I'm a senior product designer at Elastic, and normally my daily job is to help
to build the Elastic UI. That is like a design system that we use to build our
internal products like or Kibana or the Elastic Cloud, and I also help build
Kibana and mostly like one of the [inaudible 00:01:11], the Elastic maps. And I
also help the Elastic charts.

#### Sara Vieira:

For anyone who doesn't know what is the Elastic do?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

I think everything starts with Elastic Search. Elastic Search is basically very
similar to people say they similar to Mongo DB, but you can use it like Elastic
Search, mostly for analytics, and then if you use with Kibana, you can then
easily analyze your data. And you can also use Elastic Search as the name says
to create like search solutions. You can analyze like your Elastic Search
indices. So a lot of people use it for analytics and observability.

#### Sara Vieira:

So usually a lot of stuff dealing with bigger applications and bigger companies
and just massive applications.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yes and we have like different use cases. You can have some companies using to
build services like Netflix or Uber, but then you can have some pharmaceutical
companies working to analyze their data and get mixed with machine learning.

#### Sara Vieira:

Scary to know that machine learning is like in every pharmaceutical company and
that's something that you're just, you just have to live with.

#### Sara Vieira:

What was your journey leading up to where you are now? Like as a senior product
designer?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

I actually started working as an events manager and when the financial crisis
started in Portugal, it was from 2010 until 2014. I also had a music career and
in those years it was so bad because I couldn't pay my bills. I used to have a
car that I had to sell and after that I said, no, I really need to find a job
that pays my bills. And that's when I started focusing on a web because a lot of
my friends started telling me that you have a lot of skills, creating flyers,
reading WordPress websites. Then I realized that I was good at it and then I
thought, okay, maybe I can be a web designer. And that's it.

#### Sara Vieira:

Did you make your own flyers and stuff?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yes, I was doing everything. I started doing music with my friends, but I think
I was just like creative. And now looking to the past, I think that I was not a
real musician. I was just too curious to try to do things. And if those things
were like, you could do it with computers, I would be very good doing it. So,
because I was not a good singer, I said, I'm going to do a rep. I did my first
website and my brother, he also was at the time doing hip hop as well and he
created a website related with hip-hop, Portuguese hip hop and no one was
putting songs in his website. So he said, can you record one? So I have one song
there. And so I recorded he would like the song on his website. And after that
people started knowing me, Oh, you are that artist.

#### Sara Vieira:

Did any of the experiences that you had in this type of industry, which was
completely different, actually helped you in the longterm when going into design
and tech in general?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yes, because for everything that I was doing before, events and music, I had to
build my own flyers, website, taking care of marketing promotion. So I always
did so many things that when I got my first role, it was as a WordPress
developer. I even ended up doing a website with CodeIgniter. My manager at the
time, he just accepted a project and we had to build with CodeIgniter and I told
him, â€˜well I don't know how to write this type of PHP. It's too complex.'

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

And then when we started creating the project, it was like two engineers from a
company and we had to do a lot of calculations in the resistor. And I got stuck.
So I got stuck in the code. I couldn't finish the code and we started having
inside company, a lot of discussions, Oh, you shouldn't have accepted this
project. I can do the project. In one day, we were having this discussion. My
manager was like, you're fired. And I just left the next day called me. 'Hello.
You know, you can come back, I was just upset. You know, this project was too
complex and we shouldn't have', and then, you know, I was like, 'Oh, I don't
want to work there anymore'. And then that's when I became a UI developer.

#### Sara Vieira:

What do you have in design that you really enjoy, that you don't have as a UI
developer?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Solving problems. When I was just a developer, the decision was already made and
I just had to develop the feature or the component or the website. And sometimes
I was looking at it and thinking, this is not done in the proper way. I moved to
Darwin. And I started working in a company there and I learned a lot working for
that startup because we had a very junior designer and she was giving me the
designs and I was questioning a lot of things. So I realized that maybe I was a
designer. In that startup, they moved me to the design team, the startup, we got
funding from Alibaba and because we really wanted to show to Alibaba that we're
really cool and creating innovating things, we said, well, we should use orange,
like the Alibaba logo to impress. So we did this website with the orange
background and then the CEO of the company, he saw a few things like animated
cats.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

And they said, you should put these type of things inside the product. Why don't
we have these things in our product. I said, okay. So our own page was like some
planets. It wasn't this on top of the orange background, some planets. And then
to go to some sections of the website, you have to click the, the planets.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

And then with time when we started realizing, Oh, this is really bad. But I
actually liked the Alibaba team. They sent a few developers from China to help
us. I think this was a very, a red flag because they start seeing like, Oh, you
can build, you need help. So they came like to help and they start showing us.
They said we have this design system. At the time, it was the end design. You
should use it. So we start using the end design and the product started being
more like other products in the market right now. We start using this end design
system. And I started understanding better where he's like a design system, how
design system work, why we should follow some UX, UI patterns. And I started
realizing, because I think when you are a junior designer, you really want to
impress and show your design skills. And with time you started realizing that
it's more important things like UX accessibility. That's pattern I started
following.

#### Sara Vieira:

In your opinion, what are the things that make a design system good? Like usable
for anyone in the company?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

I think it's the documentation and it's really important. And it was something
that I just started learning a lot when I joined Elastic. And also because one
of my managers, Dave, he really, really loves documentation and he loves to
write the documentation. I don't like that much, but I had to learn and then,
because I'm not a native English speaker, I also didn't have the confidence to
write and explain things.

#### Sara Vieira:

When it comes to your design system, do you use CodeSandBox in any way?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

We have some demos and you can see like the JS part and if you open the JS tab
then will have a button called SandBox button and when you open that, JS is
transformed into a CodeSandBox. Even inside Elastic in our Slack, we use a lot
CodeSandBox to share UI patterns because you can have the design system, but
sometimes if you're working for Cloud or Kibana, and sometimes you need a
pattern and you need the code editor, and then you need the button to copy
something inside the code editor, a token and then you want a button to copy
that token.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

And you can have different patterns. And sometimes the engineer would say, 'Oh,
I'm, I'm creating this. And this is the pattern I'm following. I'm using this
component and the button is this way'. And they send me in a CodeSandBox link
and I open the [inaudible 00:10:33] maybe you can, instead of using this code
block, you can instead use this component and instead of this UI button, you can
maybe use the UI empty button. And then I fork is SandBox in I improve the UI
pattern.

#### Sara Vieira:

If there's someone that's starting out trying to create design systems. Do you
have any tips for them?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Accessibility is really important to learn and also out to create accessible
components. I think it's one of the things that I'm still learning every day.
And also when you want to create a design system, you can research about all the
design system and inspect how they create the code. And I think you'll learn a
lot doing that.

#### Sara Vieira:

What has been your experience working in something that is mostly open source?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yes, first when I joined, I was a little weak. I felt that a lot of people were
seeing my mistakes, but now for me, it's just normal. My last full request, I
think I had 26 comments and this is part of the process to improve things. A lot
of, what I like is all the company works at using U tab, designers, project
managers.

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

If you need a new feature, or if you need something new, you just open an issue
saying, 'Oh, I had this idea or let's create this'. And even designers, you
create your own full requests or you have to review engineers work as a
designer. And I think that's really cool because it makes the collaboration much
easier. It's not like you're a designer and you only work with Figma. And then
you send your Figma to the engineer and the engineer implements. You can create
your design in Figma, then you can start implementing and then you can ask an
engineer to finish, or the engineer can start, and then you can help him try to
fix like the styles or suggesting design things.

#### Sara Vieira:

Do you think working in open source helped you in your career in general? Like
helped you get where you are today? Elizabet Oliveira: I think, yes, because I
think it's easier to have interviews. So people think that you're really good
doing things. And also I ended up talking in react conf in Las Vegas. And after
that, I start talking in other conferences. And so I think it opened a lot of
doors.

#### Sara Vieira:

Can you just tell us where our listeners can find you online so that they can
find you online and follow you and all the great work you've been doing?

#### Elizabet Oliveira:

Yeah. I have a website, miukimiu.com is not updated. I have all my social media
links there on my website. So you can go there and find my [inaudible 00:13:41]
I also have Instagram.

#### Sara Vieira:

Thank you so much, Elizabeth for coming. It was really nice to talk to you.

#### Sara Vieira:

Thank you so much for listening to the show this week. If you want to find out
more information, visit us at codesandbox.io/csppodcast. And if you liked this
episode, please share it on social media as well. Use the #CSBpodcasts, or you
can send us a tweet at @codesandbox. Our executive producer is Maurice Cherry
with additional production help from Ceora Ford. Engineering and editing are
courtesy of Resonate Recordings, and of course, a special thanks to Elizabet
Oliveira at Elastic, as well as the entire team at CodeSandbox.
