Sara Vieira: Hello, I'm Sara Vieira. And this is The CodeSandbox Podcast.
Collaboration, especially when it comes to coding environments can be really
tricky. How do you make it so that people can work together easily, whether it's
asynchronously or in real time? Luckily today we're talking to someone who knows
all about collaboration. Our guest this week is John Lindquist. He's the
co-founder of Egghead.io. We talked about how we went from creating video
tutorials on YouTube to building the entire platform that is Egghead today. He
shared how he onboards new instructors and collaborates with developers, and he
also gave us a preview of his latest projects. Let's go.

Sara Vieira: Hello, John. Nice to see you. How are you doing today?

John Lindquist: I'm doing well. How are you? Nice to see you too.

Sara Vieira: I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. Please tell us a bit about yourself.
What do you do at Egghead?

John Lindquist: So Egghead is a site where you can go learn a lot of stuff. Joel
Hooks and I started it about eight years ago. My role was mostly when Joel and I
got started, I was the original content creator, and we had these short terse,
concise videos to help people learn some of the more advanced concepts in
JavaScript land, the JavaScript community in general. And Egghead has grown from
there from those eight years ago, mostly in part to Joel and his expertise into
a much larger platform that helps people develop the skills and get better jobs
and all that sort of stuff.

John Lindquist: So if you consider my role, you can think... Joel, he's built
the site from the ground up. He's done all of the marketing. He's done all of
the hires. He's done all the work with the people, making illustrations like
networking and bringing other instructors on. Well, I've done some of that, but
my role has been all around the lesson side of it, as far as teaching people how
to use our Egghead style. Don't waste people's time is essentially what it boils
down to is people are busy, they want to get in and learn the thing that they
came to this site for. So I've been doing that. I train people on how to do
that. I still make tons of lessons. I'll hit a thousand soon enough.

John Lindquist: Yeah, so that's me, I'm mostly on the lesson side. I make tons
of demos, tons of lessons. I've forgotten more frameworks than I care to think
about. We've been around for a while. It's funny to be sort of a household name
at some point.

Sara Vieira: What were you doing before you started doing these lessons?

John Lindquist: So I was working at a consultancy called Round Arch for a while.
I worked at a place called Schematic for a while. It was more like marketing and
flashy sites. So I did stuff for Disney and stuff for Target. My biggest claim
to fame is I was the project lead on HBO.com. It doesn't exist anymore, but it
was fancy back in the day, back in the flash days. Did stuff for the Air Force,
Bloomberg. I kind of gotten around to a bunch of big names and kind of seen how
everything works.

John Lindquist: And then eventually I really loved the whole tooling side of
things and developer world. And I reached out to JetBrains. They make WebStorm
and IntelliJ and all the very famous products. I reached out to them about doing
a kind of dev advocate position. And that was about 10 years ago. And they
brought me on as like their North American, because they're a Russian-based
company, dev advocate. And I did that for a couple of years and it was kind of
doing like Egghead on the side or just separate lessons on the side. I was doing
lessons for WebStorm and IntelliJ and all that, which are probably still out
there somewhere.

John Lindquist: Yeah, so that was like my... If you ever want to get burned out
at conferences, just go to conferences four times a month and sit at a booth the
entire time. So I lived that life for a while, but then Egghead came around.
It's weird. I haven't thought about a resume in a long time. It's one of those
things people worry about, but I just haven't thought about writing down what
I've done.

Sara Vieira: And I was going to say that if you want to get burned out, you can
also speak at those conferences. That also works. I didn't know you were a
developer advocate before, but that makes sense. You have the willingness to
teach of a developer advocate.

Sara Vieira: Do you think what you did as a developer advocate helped you in
creating Egghead and creating the content that you did on YouTube and Egghead
and everything?

John Lindquist: Yeah. I got a ton of practice making lessons that way, and I got
a lot of experience speaking in front of crowds. So that'll always be valuable,
especially with a constant stream of people coming up to you at a booth asking
you random questions, you never know what question you're going to get. And so
you kind of prepare for everything. And if you don't know the answer, you got to
find the answer fast. I think all of those are valuable skills we don't really
talk about too much, but I definitely think that's helped me be flexible with
the ever-changing JavaScript community and JavaScript today is nothing like it
was last year. And you got to learn to live with that. You can't get angry at
it. You can't shake your fist to the sky. It's just going to change. The only
constant is change is that... That's a saying, right? People say that?

Sara Vieira: Yeah. The only constant is change. Yeah. In your opinion, what was
the major difference between working together with other people, even other
instructors and Joel obviously, and working on your own while you were doing
YouTube and the beginning of Egghead? What was the major thing that changed?

John Lindquist: I think that the most difficult part about being self-managed,
especially around when it comes to creating lessons or materials in any way, is
that you don't have the deadlines, which is everybody's worst nightmare or some
people work really well with deadlines. I'm one of those people who does work
well with deadlines, but the funny part about materials is if you have a
deadline and you ship something, then the materials might not be up to date.
Like something may have just changed or whatever.

John Lindquist: And so I think the ever-changing JavaScript community and the
stuff I was always working on has had such an influence on the way that I had to
approach my own personal job. More than like, if you're just sitting at a desk,
working on some sort of product, then you don't really have to worry about all
the tools and everything going on in the environment so much. You just kind of
pick one, you stick with it until you ship. You're just at the mercy of the
community when you're doing these materials.

Sara Vieira: Would you say that collaborating in general, like with new
instructors and with Joel has really improved what you thought Egghead could
ever be?

John Lindquist: Yeah, for sure. Egghead has grown from something that just had
angular to something that now, if you need your database and your styles and
your build tooling and learning Git, or the HTTP messages or any of that stuff,
like I could have done that by myself. We had to get everyone working together
to kind of flush out and fill out all the topics and all the paths. And that's
something that we'll always be working on is like, how do you get the developer
from just started to experienced and working on jobs. We want to help people
kickstart their careers, for sure.

Sara Vieira: What are some key aspects that you think were really important when
creating these connections and collaborating with them?

John Lindquist: When new instructors come on, we have an onboarding process
where we help them make their first few lessons. We don't just say, okay, go
make some lessons. There's a feedback cycle, we get on there and we talk with
them the lessons that they want to make. If you want to teach something or if
you want to make something, if you just take a few seconds to talk to somebody
about it first, that simple act of explaining it to somebody else, even if all
they're doing is nodding their head, will give you so much more clarity as to
what you want to make.

John Lindquist: The people we have onboarding have done a lot of training and
research around how to pull ideas out of people and how to get them to know what
they want to teach. You kind of start with the end in mind and you work towards
the end, kind of the backwards planning ideas. You ask all those questions, how
to get somebody to the end. So I think the communication there is like, you
start with that baseline of understanding what the mission is and who we are,
and then the conversations and communication around how to and what to. And then
once that's all established, I think instructors have a much easier time of what
expectations are. Expectations are such a big part of any sort of communication
that it can really help them make great stuff.

Sara Vieira: It's about trying to make them understand that we're all trying to
do the same thing and also, about making you say something. Being a teacher is
what makes you understand things better, but that's the point. You have to
explain, why do you want to teach this? How has this helped you? Why do you want
to do this? And just pulling that out of someone can really help structure
something. There's also the thing about structure. Sometimes I feel like a lot
of people want to teach something, but they don't quite know how, because of the
structuring of things. That also really helps there to lay out some foundation
and just talk to another human being. I don't think a lot of the times it
doesn't even have to be a developer. Do you work with a lot of developers
outside of Egghead in a collaborative way?

John Lindquist: Not recently. I think most recently I was teaching a lot of
workshops a few years back. So I got to see a lot of what other people were
building and working on and helping them make decisions. But as far as
collaborating on active projects, that gets into the consulting business and
that's not something we've done too much.

Sara Vieira: Do you think tools like CodeSandbox have helped you in terms of
collaboration?

John Lindquist: We use CodeSandbox extensively with Egghead. It's embedded in
almost all of our demos to show off a lot of the JavaScript or CSS or any sort
of examples. And we use it in a way where you push the code to a GitHub repo,
and then CodeSandbox can generate the demo from the repo in the branch. And we
show our demos off that way. And it's a huge part of our... It's part of the
onboarding process. We use CodeSandbox as far as the instructors, making their
original demos and getting feedback from the people who help them get started at
Egghead.

John Lindquist: And then our review team, we have a team that goes through all
of the lessons and make sure that they're up to date and check if something had
a major release that the demos still work and all that. They're going through
CodeSandbox and forking them, checking in with new versions and all of that. And
then of course, all of the customers, our audience or learners who come to
Egghead are using CodeSandbox as they're looking at the demos after they
complete a lesson.

John Lindquist: So it's definitely embedded in Egghead and it's been great. I
mean, especially because we're changing the demos a lot and keeping them up to
date, the integration with GitHub has been crucial for us as far as keeping the
demos nice for everybody. For people who are just getting started, it's a chance
for them to learn new technologies, try the CodeSandbox demos, see if they're
still working with the latest versions. And we get that valuable feedback and we
get to keep our things up to date for other people who are going through it.

Sara Vieira: Of your job right now, what is the thing that you enjoy the most?

John Lindquist: So I'm actually working on a project called Script Kit, which is
a script runner from... If you've ever used like an Alfred or a keyboard
maestro, it's similar to that in that you can launch this prompt, but it's
script first, meaning that you're writing these scripts, whether it's
positioning windows or whether it's creating APIs, doing anything you want to
automate, your lights in your room or any of that sort of stuff. And querying it
from a little prompt that pops up.

John Lindquist: So I've been working on this for a few months now. I'm really
excited to get it out there. It's open source and it'll be available for
everyone. I'll make learning materials around it and how to automate your life
away, putting everything behind a keyboard shortcut. And I'm trying to get rid
of that hurdle. I'm making it really easy to write a script and really easy to
bind it to a keyboard shortcut or real easy to run, hopefully saving people a
lot of grief in the process and helping them optimize their lives a bit.

Sara Vieira: That sounds like a great idea. And I honestly cannot wait to use
that.

John Lindquist: It'll be fun. It's unique. People will see it and they'll think
it's an Alfred, but it's not. It's something totally different. So I'm excited
to get it out there.

Sara Vieira: It's been a really good talk. I've had a lot of fun. It's been
really fun. Can you just tell where our listeners can find you online?

John Lindquist: Yeah. Just Egghead.io is the flagship of everything I've done in
my life. Scriptkit.app is where Script Kit will be. And then John Lindquist on
Twitter is a good place to find me.

Sara Vieira: Thank you so much for coming. It was really fun to talk to you.

John Lindquist: Thanks.

Sara Vieira: Do you have any final remarks? Anything else you want to say?

John Lindquist: Everyone be excellent to each other.

Sara Vieira: Thank you so much for listening to the show this week. If you want
to find out more information, visit us at codesandbox.io/csbpodcast. And if you
liked this episode, please share it on social media as well. Use the hashtag
#csbpodcast, or you can send us a tweet at @codesandbox. Our executive producer
is Maurice Cherry with additional production help from Ceora Ford. Engineering
and editing are the courtesy of Resonate Recordings. Special thanks to John
Lindquist of Egghead.io, as well as the entire team at CodeSandbox.
